# Stone-Paper-Scissors___Open-CV
The project is developed using python programming language. In this project, the user has to make one of the three  gesture choices available i.e. Rock, Paper, Scissors that are to be shown on the device camera physically. Making one  of the three gestures, plays a turn with the shown hand sign that is either Rock/Paper/Scissors. It results in the computer  to select Rock/Paper/Scissors which is randomly generated by the system. Both the results of the then compared with  each other and the winner of that round is decided. Rock beats Scissors, Scissors beats Paper and Paper beats Rock.  The winner of each round is declared based on the above criteria.

# Requirements:
1. Python
2. OpenCV
3. Numpy

# How to Install:
1. Python-
 Go to https://www.python.org/downloads/ and download latest version for 
python from there.
 Open the downloaded file and follow the instructions to install Python on the 
device.
 To check if Python is installed successfully, open Command Prompt (Search
CMD), type “python -V”. It will print the installed version of Python on the 
device.
2. OpenCV-
 Python must be installed before installing OpenCV.
 Open Command Prompt and type “pip install cv2”.
 The above command will install the latest version of OpenCV on your device.
3. Numpy-
 Python must be installed before installing Numpy.
 Open Command Prompt and type “pip install numpy”.
 The above command will install the latest version of Numpy on your device.

# How to Run:
1. Extract the zip file.
2. Open Command Prompt.
3. Type “cd (location where zip file was extracted)” and press Enter.
4. Then type “py Stone_paper_Scissors.py” and press Enter.
5. Enjoy the Game.

# OR
1. Extract the zip file.
2. Open the Stone_paper_scissors.py file with any installed compiler (eg. Pycharm).
3. Set-up a compiler for running the code (i.e Python 3.9 in my case).
4. Debug and Run the program using the features provided by the compiler.
5. Enjoy the Game
